Group Appointment Calendar for Python
=====================================

Overview
--------

The Group Appointment Calendar for Python aims to provide a mechanism for
students to schedule demo appointments with instructors. Teachers or TAs make
a list of times for which they are available, and then students in groups sign
up to come to a given appointment.

Major Features
--------------

 * Students can be formed into groups that set up a single appointment time
 * Data can be stored in any SQL-compliant database back-end to provide
   reliability and interoperability with third-party clients
 * Web-based front-end ensures universal accessibility from anywhere on
   campus
 * Low system requirements ensure that even junked PCs  can be used as a host
 * Python-powered core using the [Django][3] framework for fast development
   and easy extendibility
   
[1]: http://www.djangoproject.com/ "Django Python Web Framework"

Design Goals
------------

Because this is an instructional product, we have a slightly different focus
than normal. Our primary design goal is **keep it simple**. This is not a
programming course, but rather an opportunity to get involved in and launch an
open-source project. As such, stay focused on the learning and not on the
feature set. The other primary goal for this product is to make the product as
easy-to-use as possible. This may well mean eschewing features in favor of
simple, straightforward design and user interface. That's a good thing. Enjoy
it.

Case Study: Dr. Jablowme
------------------------

Dr. Jablowme is a professor of occult studies at Duke University. For his OS
118 course, students are required to analyze the internals of the Windows XP
kernel, and, leveraging what they learned in class about conjuring demons from
beyond the grave, cause a copy of Windows to materialize spontaneously in thin
air. This demonstration must be performed in front of Dr. Jablowme during a
period of his day when he is available to deal with the "Lesser Minds" of
undergraduate students. To enable students to do this, Dr. Jablowme sits
himself in front of his Apple Macintosh LC III, fires up Netscape Navigator
3.2, and navigates to the site where his department's copy of GAPPy is housed.

Upon reaching the site, Dr. Jablowme is asked for a username and password. He
dutifully types in BUFFY and TOH\_OS\_SI, respectively, then clicks "Login."
In a moment, he is presented with his main screen. It is divided into three
columns. In the rightmost column is a list of all upcoming appointments
scheduled in the system for the next three days, along with which class and
assignment it is for. Slots that he has made himself available for that are
not yet full are also listed as being reserved but open. Clicking on any of
these appointments or reserved times would take him to a screen where he could
reopen the appointment (meaning that students would lose their reservation) or
break the appointment entirely, removing it from the list of available meeting
times. The middle column is currently blank.

![Professor's Home Screen](profhome.png)

Dr. Jablowme clicks on his "Occult Studies" class in the leftmost column. The
middle column suddenly fills up with a list of demos. Because Dr. Jablowme has
not yet created a demo for students to demonstrate their ability to create the
undead, he clicks the "Add Demo" link at the bottom of the middle column. In
the next screen, he is prompted to name the demo period. He names it "Raising
Undead." Below the text field asking for his name are two buttons marked
"Cancel" and "Continue." He clicks the "Continue" button.

Next, Dr. Jablowme is asked to list times that he is available. There is a
single text field, to the right of which is a small calendar image that brings
up a calendar, and to the right of that a button marked "Add." Dr. Jablowme
remembers that the assignment's due on the 8th of November and likes to get
started early, so he types in "9 November 2005 2:55 PM" and then hits the
"Add" button. Now, in an area just below the text box, he sees the text
"Wednesday, November 9, at 2:55 PM". Oops; Dr. Jablowme always gets totally
shitfaced on Tuesday. He won't be able to begin grading on Wednesday. He
clicks a small trash can next to the time, deleting it from his potential
appointments. He now clicks the calendar widget and selects the 10th of
November, a Thursday. He clicks Add again, and now a good time is shown. Dr.
Jablowme repeats the process until he's created nearly a dozen potential
appointment times.

On the right side of the screen is a button marked "Cancel," a button marked
"Go Back," and another marked "Finish." Dr. Jablowme clicks Finish. He is now
returned to his home screen; a message at the top says, "Appointments
Created!" Dr. Jablowme smiles serenely, gets up, and returns to his previous
task of trying to find his eye of newt.

Case Study: Larry Putz McClanahan
-----------------------------------

Larry is a sophomore at Duke University and a student in a compsci course. Within that course, he is assigned to a group with two other people. That group has a single login in the system.

When the group wants to sign up for an appointment, they sit down in front of a computer and someone signs in using their group id and password.

Once logged in, they will be presented with a list of possible project demos that they can sign up for. Remember, the group login is tied to a specific class. There are multiple projects within each class, though. Generally speaking, a group will only sign up for one demo period per project.

The group members select the project they want from a drop-down menu with a list of names, and click a button to proceed to the next screen. On this screen, there will be a list of possible demo times. Each will display a date, time, and the name of the TA or professor available at that time. There will be a radio button beside each option. To schedule a demo, the group selects one of the times and presses a submit button, giving them a confirmation page.

Alternately, if the group has already signed up for a demo for that project, they will get a page telling them this when they select the project from the drop-down menu. They will then be presented with the option of cancelling this appointment so they can go back and schedule another.

When all this is done, the group can log out by clicking a "log out" button present on all of the pages, thus gaining a false sense of security since it doesn't really do anything.

Licenses
--------

The license for this project will initially be the [GPL][2], although the fact
that all copyright holders are trivially available ensures that we can change
that later in the project if we wish. In particular, we likely want to examine
at least the [BSD][3] license.

[2]: http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html "GNU General Public License"
[3]: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php "Berkeley System Design License"

Software Architecture
---------------------

In order to allow us to complete this project in the next month, we will be
using a Python-based web framework called Django. Django provides (relatively)
transparent persistence, plus robust user management and administration
interfaces. These should not be reinvented. The application should also follow
the rigid model-view-controller (MVC) interface encouraged by Django.

All remaining architectural decisions are yours. Once you all have come to a
conclusion, update this specification.

Version 2 Features
------------------

The following are features that would be nice to have, but can safely be
postponed to version two and still leave us with a working, useful product.

  1. The ability for group members to list their individual schedules and
     set up appointments specific to their individual groups.
  2. Leveraging the above to provide automatic appointment proposals and
     potentially assignments